\" genpass.conf.5
\" 
\" This is the manpage belonging to the genpass.conf file
\"
\" $Id: genpass.conf.5,v 1.7 2011/04/17 11:32:45 jabik Exp $

.TH genpass.conf 5
.SH NAME
.B genpass.conf
\-\- The genpass configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/local/etc/genpass.conf
.B $HOME/.genpass

.SH DESCRIPTION
genpass reads the file /usr/local/etc/genpass.conf (or the file supplied by -f on the commandline). This file contains keyword-argument pairs, one per line, which count as defaults for genpass. Lines starting with an `#' and empty lines are considered as comments and ignored by genpass.

Keywords are always uppercase. Argumenst are always numbers. Keywords and arguments are seperated by `='.
Possible keywords are:
.IP "LENGTH"
This defines the length of the password. If not given, it will default to 8.
.IP "UPPER"
Defines the minimum number of uppercase characters. If not given, it will default to 1.
.IP "LOWER"
Defines the minimum number of lowercase characters. Defaults to 1 if not supplied.
.IP "DIGITS"
Gives the minimum number of numerical characters. Defaults to 1 if not supplied.
.IP "EXTRA"
This defines the minimum number of extra characters. If not given, it will default to 1.
.IP "SEED"
This defines the seed for all random functions in genpass.
Use this option with care, because the same seed, results in the same password.
This circumvents the entire idea of having a 'random' password generator, but it can
be good for testing purposes.

Setting a value to -1 disables that feature.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B genpass(1)

.SH AUTHORS
The algorithm is designed and implemented by Sjoerd Job Postmus <devel@sjoerdjob.com>. 
The userinterface is written by Jabik Postmus <devel@snth.eu>.

