\" genpass.1
\" This is the manpage for the genpass project.
\" $Id: genpass.1,v 1.8 2011/04/17 11:32:45 jabik Exp $
.TH GENPASS 1
.SH NAME
GenPass \- a random password generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genpass
[
.I OPTION
]
.SH INTRODUCTION
.B genpass
is a simple random password generator. It will create a password 
consisting of lowercase-, uppercase- characters, numbers and 
non-alphanumeric characters. These passwords created by
.B genpass
are completely random and occur in no dictionairy. Therefore a 
dictionairy attack an your password will not succeed. There is however 
no remedy for brute force attacks.
.SH USAGE
You can run
.B genpass
with no arguments, and it will ceate a standard format password. This 
default format password is 8 characters long and has two uppercase- and 
two lowercasecharacters. Furthermore it has two numbers and two extra 
characters.

If you want to customize the type of password you can supply commandline 
arguments to
.B genpass
.IP "-d #"
at least #
.B numbers
.IP "-e #"
at least #
.B non-alphanumeric
characters
.IP "-h, --help"
Print a help message
.IP "-l #"
atleast #
.B lowercase
characters
.IP "-n #"
generates a password of # characters
.IP "-u #"
atleast #
.B uppercase
characters
.IP "-f configfile"
Specify a different config file. Default is "CONFDIR/genpass.conf"
.IP "-s #"
Use this number as the seed to random. Use this option with care, because
the same seed, results in the same password. It circumvents the whole
idea of a 'random' password generator. But it can be nice for testing
perposes.
.IP "-v"
Verbose, thus showing all the options you are using.
.IP "-V"
Show the version.

Setting a value to -1 disables that feature.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to devel@sjoerdjob.com or devel@snth.eu
.SH SEE ALSO
.B genpass.conf(5)
.SH AUTHORS
The algorithm is designed and implemented by Sjoerd Job Postmus <devel@sjoerdjob.com>.
The userinterface is written by Jabik Postmus <devel@snth.eu>

